[Back to documentation home](https://github.com/Programming-Project-SP1-2023/Backend-REST-API)

# Genereating Timestamps
PlantIQ's TimeService is a class designed to produce timestamps. The class is composed by three methods that generate respectively three types of timestamps, which are used to determine creation time and expiration time of many elements.
The three methods are static, allowing other classes to call them without the need of creating the TimeService object.

To use the TimeService functionalities, the class must be imported as following:
```java
import com.plantiq.plantiqserver.service.TimeService;
```

The timestamps are displayed as seconds passed from the Unix epoch (January 1st, 1970) and will be returned by the three functions as Long values.
```java
//EXAMPLE USAGE
TimeService.now()
//EXAMPLE RESULT
1685349549
```

## Timestamps available
- Current timestamp
- Future timestamp
- Past timestamp

###Current Timestamp
To obtain the current timestamp, the method now() must be called. This will return a Long value matching the current timestamp.
```java
    //EXAMPLE    
    data.put("registrationDate", TimeService.now());
```
###Future Timestamp
Future timestamps are generated by summing a number of days to the current timestamp. It is not possible to manually adjust the seconds/minutes/hours of the timestamp. To obtain a future timestamp, the method nowPLusDays() must be called, passing as parameter the offset of days that are going to be added to the current time.This will return a Long value representing the future timestamp.
```java
    //EXAMPLE    
    data.put("expiryDate", TimeService.nowPlusDays(1));
```
###Past Timestamp
Similarly to the future timestamps, past timestamps are generated by subtracting a number of days to the current timestamp. It is not possible to modify manually adjust the seconds/minutes/hours of the timestamp. To obtain a past timestamp, the method nowMinusDays() must be called, passing as parameter the offset days that are going to be subtracted to the current time. This will return a Long value representing the past timestamp.
```java
    //EXAMPLE    
    data.put("pastDate", TimeService.nowMinusDays(3));
```